Welcome back.
How did you do in this exercise.
Were you successful were you not.
Here's the thing.
This is actually extremely simple but it looks overly complex and that's a general trend with Krass.
They look really really intimidating at first and really hard to really think about them in your mind.
But once you put things down understand things maybe draw things out.
They're actually quite simple and they're very similar to what we've learned up until now everything
we've learned about hash tables arrays trees linked lists are all part of graphs and graphs simply use
those data structures.
For those of you that weren't able to solve this problem it might be because you were a little bit intimidated
to the task at hand.
But let me show you how simple this can be in order to add a vertex to our adjacency list.
All we need to do is to simply say this Dot had or this adjacency list is going to have node.
So we're adding the key into this object of the know that we want to add.
And that's going to equal an empty array because when we enter a new node it's not going to have any
connections initially.
We want to add the edges afterwards.
And then finally we want to increase the number of nodes by 1.
Now we have one more.
That's it.
We've just created our notes.
Look at that.
We have zero all the way through six and they are in our graph.
Unfortunately none of them connect to anything.
We've just created the notes but not the edges.
So let's go ahead and do that.
With the edges because this is an undirected graph.
Well we'll have to do is say this dot adjacent list is going to say no to one that is the first node
that we're giving and the node one is going to push.
Remember this is an object so we're getting the key so that is let's say this is node 0 it's going to
push to the array of connections that knows your house and say that it's going to be connected to Node
2 and because this is on directed that means we have to do it the other way around as well.
So we simply copy this.
Let's make this a little bit bigger so you can see and we simply reverse things.
So no 2 is also connected to node one.
If I press run here look at that we have our graph how simple as that.
That wasn't bad right.
And I mean we could create this in a linked list if we wanted to.
But the concept is the same.
If we look at 0 that is connected to 1 and 2 we can confirm that 0 is connected to 1 and 2.
If we look at 1 3 2 0 1 is collected 2 3 2 0 and less Shekh maybe 5 which is connected to 4 6 5 is connected
to 4 6.
And there it is we've just created our very first graph.
When it comes to interviews graphs aren't as big of a topic as the other data.
Data Structures mostly because they take a bit of time and questions regarding graphs can be overly
complex.
That doesn't mean that you won't see them but they are rare.
However by knowing the basic fundamentals what types of grass we have and how you might create crafts
how you might want to hold data and graphs such as adjacency matrix adjacency list an edge list.
You already show that you have the ability to understand graphs which is an advanced concept now because
graph questions aren't that big a part of interviews.
We won't be spending any more coding time on it.
But also keep in mind that we have a section coming up on algorithms where we're going to dive a little
bit deeper into things such as breadth first search and depth first search which can be applied both
digraphs and Treece.
So if you feel like you can still learn a bit about graphs don't worry we're still getting there.
But for now congratulations on creating your first graph.
I'll see in the next video.
Buh-Bye.